<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" ssml:alphabet="ipa">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Pixabay License</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/ccby.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="pixabayh1">
  <h1 id="pixabayh1">Pixabay License</h1>
  <aside>
    <p>At one point in time, <a href="https://pixabay.com/" title="Internet Resource">Pixabay</a> used the <a href="CC0_1_0.xhtml">CC0</a> license for all images and videos uploaded to their site.</p>
    <p>Once they had a rather significant number of images, they silently changed the usage license to their own. Bait and Switch cow manure.</p>
    <p>The new license is only compatible with use in the <a href="CC_BY_4_0.xhtml">CC BY-SA</a> field guide if the following conditions are met:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Only still image photographic content is used.</li>
      <li>No people are used in the image. This satisfies <a href="#Rc" >restriction c</a>.</li>
      <li>No products, brands, or trademarks are used in the image. This satisfies <a href="#Rd" >restriction d</a>.</li>
      <li>The image is modified in such a manner that it is readily visually different from the image as it appears on Pixabay. Cropping the image meets that requirement. This helps satisfy <a href="#Ra">restriction a</a> and <a href="#Rb">restriction b</a>.</li>
      <li>The largest side of the image is not more than 2048 pixels and the smallest side of the image is not more than 1024 pixels. This helps satisfy <a href="#Ra">restriction a</a> and <a href="#Rb">restriction b</a>.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Use of Pixabay content is discouraged but Content Curators for this field guide are allowed to use images from Pixabay when suitable content is not available from a <a href="CC_BY-SA_4_0.xhtml">CC BY-SA</a>, <a href="CC_BY_4_0.xhtml">CC BY</a>, <a href="CC0_1_0.xhtml">CC0</a>, or <a href="https://copyright.cornell.edu/publicdomain" title="Internet Resource">Verifiable Public Domain</a> source as long as the above guidelines are met.</p>
    <p>However Content Curators are <em>encouraged</em> to attempt contact the photographer to both get the real name of the photographer and explicit permission outside the context of Pixabay to use the image under the terms of the <a href="CC_BY-SA_4_0.xhtml">CC BY-SA</a> license.</p>
    <p>Pixabay License Authoritative Canonical Source: <a href="https://pixabay.com/service/terms/#license" title="Internet Link">https://pixabay.com/service/terms/#license</a></p>
    <p>Pixabay does not version their license. The license as reproduced below is archived at <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20200218210632/https://pixabay.com/service/terms/" title="Internet Resource">https://web.archive.org/web/20200218210632/https://pixabay.com/service/terms/</a>.</p>
  </aside>
  <section aria-labelledby="pixlicenseh2">
    <h2 id="pixlicenseh2">License for Images and Videos – Pixabay License</h2>
    <p>Images and Videos on Pixabay are made available under the Pixabay License on the following terms. Under the Pixabay License you are granted an irrevocable, worldwide, non-exclusive and royalty free right to use, download, copy, modify or adapt the Images and Videos for commercial or non-commercial purposes. Attribution of the photographer or Pixabay is not required but is always appreciated.</p>
    <p>The Pixabay License does <strong>not</strong> allow:</p>
    <ol type="a">
      <li id="Ra">sale or distribution of Images or Videos as digital stock photos or as digital wallpapers;</li>
      <li id="Rb">sale or distribution of Images or Videos e.g. as a posters, digital prints or physical products, without adding any additional elements or otherwise adding value;</li>
      <li id="Rc">depiction of identifiable persons in an offensive, pornographic, obscene, immoral, defamatory or libelous way; or</li>
      <li id="Rd">    any suggestion that there is an endorsement of products and services by depicted persons, brands, and organisations, unless permission was granted.</li>
    </ol>
    <p>Please be aware that while all Images and Videos on Pixabay are free to use for commercial and non-commercial purposes, depicted items in the Images or Videos, such as identifiable people, logos, brands, etc. may be subject to additional copyrights, property rights, privacy rights, trademarks etc. and may require the consent of a third party or the license of these rights - particularly for commercial applications. Pixabay does not represent or warrant that such consents or licenses have been obtained, and expressly disclaims any liability in this respect.</p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>