<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" ssml:alphabet="ipa">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Redistribution Conditions</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/license.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="redh1">
  <p><strong>NOTE:</strong> These terms have not yet been reviewed by a lawyer. Changes are likely when that happens.</p>
  <h1 id="redh1">Redistribution Conditions</h1>
  <p>This Creative Work is distributed under the terms and conditions of the <a href="CC_BY-SA_4_0.xhtml">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License</a>.</p>
  <p>If you wish to redistribute the ePub file containing this work, without modification, you may do so for free or for profit without needing to provide any royalties or compensation.</p>
  <p>If you wish to modify this work or redistribute part of it, please read what follows.</p>
  <section id="definitions" aria-labelledby="definitionsh2">
    <h2 id="definitionsh2">Definitions</h2>
    <ul>
      <li><dfn class="dsq">Pipfrosch Press</dfn> at this time is not an actual legal entity. Until such time that it is, it refers to <span class="ssq">Michael A. Peters</span>, the arrogant bastard visionary behind this project.</li>
      <li><dfn class="dsq">The Complete Work</dfn> refers to the ePub file with the ePub <code>unique-identifier</code> of <code class="dsq">c0957b2a-f6e8-4105-842e-2ab89264e978</code> whether or not there is an associated <abbr title="International Standard Book Number">ISBN</abbr> identifier.</li>
      <li><dfn class="dsq">The <abbr>OPF</abbr> File</dfn> refers to the <code class="dsq">OEBPS/content.opf</code> file within the ePub archive.</li>
      <li><dfn class="dsq">The Title Page</dfn> refers to the file <code class="dsq">OEBPS/TitlePage.xhtml</code> file within the ePub archive.</li>
      <li><dfn class="dsq">The Complete <abbr>ToC</abbr></dfn> refers to the file <code class="dsq">OEBPS/TOC.xhtml</code> file within the ePub archive. Even though it is an <abbr>XHTML</abbr> file, it is <em>not</em> referenced in The <span class="ssq"><abbr>OPF</abbr> File</span> <code>&lt;spine&gt;</code> node. It exists as metadata for ePub viewers.</li>
      <li><dfn class="dsq">Metadata Files</dfn> include the following:<ul>
        <li>The <abbr>OPF</abbr> File.</li>
        <li>The Complete <abbr>ToC</abbr>.</li>
        <li>All contents of the <code class="dsq">META-INF</code> directory within the ePub archive.</li>
        <li>All files listet within <span class="ssq">The <abbr>OPF</abbr> File</span> <code>&lt;manifest&gt;</code> node that specifically have a <code>media-type="text/xml"</code> attribute.</li>
      </ul></li>
      <li><dfn class="dsq">Font Files</dfn> includes all files listed within <span class="ssq">The <abbr>OPF</abbr> File</span> <code>&lt;manifest&gt;</code> node that specifically have a <code>media-type</code> attribute value of <code>font/ttf</code>, <code>font/otf</code>, <code>font/woff</code>, or <code>font/woff2</code>.</li>
      <li><dfn class="dsq">Functional Code Files</dfn> refers to the collection of all files listed within <span class="ssq">The <abbr>OPF</abbr> File</span> <code>&lt;manifest&gt;</code> node that specifically have a <code>media-type="text/css"</code> or a <code>media-type="application/javascript"</code> attribute.</li>
      <li><dfn class="dsq">License Files</dfn> refers to all files within the <code class="dsq">OEBPS/licenses</code> directory.</li>
      <li><dfn class="dsq">The Creative Work</dfn> refers to the collection of all files listed within <span class="ssq">The <abbr>OPF</abbr> File</span> <code>&lt;manifest&gt;</code> node that are not <span class="ssq">Metadata Files</span>, <span class="ssq">Font Files</span>, <span class="ssq">Functional Code Files</span>, or <span class="ssq">License Files</span>.</li>
      <li><dfn class="dsq">Text Creative Resource</dfn> refers to any file that is part of <span class="ssq">The Creative Work</span> and is listed in the <code>&lt;manifest&gt;</code> node of <span class="ssq">The <abbr>OPF</abbr> File</span> using a <code>media-type="application/xhtml+xml"</code> attribute.</li>
      <li><dfn class="dsq">Non-Text Creative Resource</dfn> refers to any file that is part of <span class="ssq">The Creative Work</span> and is listed in the <code>&lt;manifest&gt;</code> node of <span class="ssq">The <abbr>OPF</abbr> File</span> using a <code>media-type</code> attribute <em>other than</em> <code class="dsq">application/xhtml+xml</code>.</li>
      <li><dfn class="dsq">Scientific Reviewer</dfn> refers to a scientist that has reviewed specific content for scientific accuracy.</li>
      <li><dfn class="dsq">Content Curator</dfn> refers to an approved person or team working on behalf of <span class="ssq">Pipfrosch Press</span> to ensure the itellectual and factual quality of content included within <span class="ssq">The Creative Content</span>.</li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="creativework" aria-labelledby="creativeworkh2">
    <h2 id="creativeworkh2">The Creative Work</h2>
    <p><span class="ssq">The Creative Work</span> is ©<time>2020</time> Pipfrosch Press and is released under the terms of the <a href="CC_BY-SA_4_0.xhtml">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License</a> (<abbr>CC BY-SA</abbr> 4.0).</p>
    <p>If you are distributing a modified version of <span class="ssq">The Creative Work</span>, you <em>must</em> follow the terms of that license.</p>
    <p>When modifying a <span class="ssq">Text Creative Resource</span> that has been reviewed by a <span class="ssq">Scientific Reviewer</span>, reference to the <span class="ssq">Scientific Reviewer</span> <em>must</em> be removed as the review no longer applies to the modified content.</p>
    <p>If you are distributing a modified version of <span class="ssq">The Creative Work</span>, you <em>also must</em> ensure you comply with the conditions described in the sections of this document titled <a href="#opffile">The <abbr>OPF</abbr> File</a> and <a href="#titlepage">The Title Page</a>.</p>
    <p>If you are distributing a modified version of <span class="ssq">The Creative Work</span> that includes the <span class="ssq">License Files</span>, you <em>also must</em> ensure you comply with the conditions described in the sections of this document titled <a href="#licensefiles">License Files</a>.</p>
    <p>If you are distributing a modified version of <span class="ssq">The Creative Work</span> that includes the <span class="ssq">Font Files</span> that are part of <span class="ssq">The Complete Work</span>, you <em>must</em> also comply with the license(s) that applies to those <span class="ssq">Font Files</span>, see the section titled <a href="#fontfiles">Font Files</a>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="metadata" aria-labelledby="metadatah2">
    <h2 id="metadatah2">Metadata Files</h2>
    <p>All <span class="ssq">Metadata Files</span> are licensed under the <a href="CC0_1_0.xhtml">Creative Commons <abbr>CC0</abbr> 1.0 Universal</a> (<abbr>CC0</abbr>) license (effectively you have the same right as if they were Public Domain).</p>
  </section>
  <section id="functional" aria-labelledby="functionalh2">
    <h2 id="functionalh2">Functional Code Files</h2>
    <p>All <span class="ssq">Functional Code Files</span> are licensed under the <a href="CC0_1_0.xhtml">Creative Commons <abbr>CC0</abbr> 1.0 Universal</a> (<abbr>CC0</abbr>) license (effectively you have the same right as if they were Public Domain).</p>
  </section>
  <section id="fontfiles" aria-labelledby="fontfilesh2">
    <h2 id="fontfilesh2">Font Files</h2>
    <p>Intel® Clear Sans was chosen for this project because Michael A. Peters, who has some reading disabilities including but not limited to an increased liklihood of epileptic seizures when his eyes get tired, found Intel® Clear Sans to be exceptionally easy to read on small screen devices compared with the default fonts that many ePub viewers use.</p>
    <p>The Intel® Clear Sans fonts are released by Intel® under the terms of the <a href="Apache_License_2_0.xhtml">Apache License, Version 2.0</a>.</p>
    <p>Original versions of the Clear Sans <span class="ssq">Font Files</span> were obtained from <a href="https://01.org/clear-sans" title="Internet Resource">https://01.org/clear-sans</a>. Modified versions of those files are included in <span class="ssq">The Complete Work</span>:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><code>ClearSans-Regular-wlatin.ttf</code></li>
      <li><code>ClearSans-Italic-wlatin.ttf</code></li>
      <li><code>ClearSans-Bold-wlatin.ttf</code></li>
      <li><code>ClearSans-BoldItalic-wlatin.ttf</code></li>
    </ul>
    <p>The original <span class="ssq">Font Files</span> were modified to remove glyphs that are not needed outside the context of Western Latin content, thus significantly reducing the size of the files (this is called Font Subsetting and is a common publishing production practice for embedded fonts).</p>
    <p>Additionally, Michael A. Peters created four <span class="ssq">Font Files</span> to compliment Intel® Clear Sans. Work on those <span class="ssq">Font Files</span> is not yet complete, but is complete enough to use here. They also are released under the terms of the <a href="Apache_License_2_0.xhtml">Apache License, Version 2.0</a>:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><code>ClearSansSCP.ttf</code></li>
      <li><code>ClearSansSCP-Italic.ttf</code></li>
      <li><code>ClearSansSCP-Bold.ttf</code></li>
      <li><code>ClearSansSCP-BoldItalic.ttf</code></li>
    </ul>
    <p>At this time, no other <span class="ssq">Font Files</span> are used in <span class="ssq">The Complete Work</span>.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="licensefiles" aria-labelledby="licensefilesh2">
    <h2 id="licensefilesh2">License Files</h2>
    <p>With the exception of this file (<code class="dsq">Redistribution_Conditions.xhtml</code>), every file within the <code class="dsq">OEBPS/licenses</code> directory contains license content written by a third party license creator, but wrapped in <abbr>XHTML</abbr> markup for proper rendering within an ePub book.</p>
    <p>The <span class="ssq">License Files</span> should be considered <a href="CC0_1_0.xhtml"><abbr>CC0</abbr></a> <em>however</em>, including this file, you may not alter them in such a way that the license and/or terms are mis-represented.</p>
  </section>
  <section id="opffile" aria-labelledby="opffileh2">
    <h2 id="opffileh2">The <abbr>OPF</abbr> File</h2>
    <p>When distributing modified versions of <span class="ssq">The Complete Work</span> that include an <abbr>OPF</abbr> file, whether or not it was derived from <span class="ssq">The <abbr>OPF</abbr> File</span> used within <span class="ssq">The Complete Work</span>, the following conditions <em>must</em> be met:</p>
    <p>If an <abbr>ISBN</abbr> code is present within <span class="ssq">The <abbr>OPF</abbr> File</span> and/or on <span class="ssq">The Title Page</span>, you <em>must</em> remove it before distributing a modified version of <span class="ssq">The Creative Work</span>. You can of course use your own <abbr>ISBN</abbr> if you so choose.</p>
    <p>You <em>must not</em> use the same <code class="dsq">unique-identifier</code> within your <abbr>OPF</abbr> file.</p>
    <p>You <em>must not</em> specify <span class="ssq">Pipfrosch Press</span> within the <code>&lt;dc:publisher&gt;</code> node or otherwise indicate that <span class="ssq">Pipfrosch Press</span> is the publisher.</p>
    <p>You <em>must</em> have appropriate <code>&lt;dc:author&gt;</code> and <code>&lt;dc:contributor&gt;</code> nodes, along with the appropriate <code>marc:relators &lt;meta&gt;</code> nodes within your <abbr>OPF</abbr> <code>&lt;metadata&gt;</code> node, for any of the creative content from <span class="ssq">The Creative Work</span> that you retained.</p>
    <p>Those metadata tags are part of the proper attribution required for <a href="CC_BY-SA_4_0.xhtml"><abbr>CC BY-SA</abbr> 4.0</a> compliance.</p>
    <section id="curators" aria-labelledby="curatorsh3">
      <h3 id="curatorsh3"><abbr>OPF</abbr> File Content Curator Exception</h3>
      <p><span class="ssq">Content Curators</span> and <span class="ssq">Pipfrosch Press</span> approved content authors working under the authority of a <span class="ssq">Content Curator</span> do not need to worry about changing the <code class="dsq">unique-identifier</code> or changing the <code>&lt;dc:publisher&gt;</code> node but the version of this work they are working on <em>must not</em> contain an <abbr>ISBN</abbr> code.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="accessibility" aria-labelledby="a11yh3">
      <h3 id="a11yh3" class="a11y"><abbr>OPF</abbr> File Accessibility Rights</h3>
      <p>Libraries, Schools, or other institutions who need to modify this work <em>for the explicit purpose</em> of providing missing accessibility needs for a user with a disability are <em>explicitly</em> allowed to do so without needing to worry about removing the <abbr>ISBN</abbr> code, changing the <code class="dsq">unique-identifier</code>, or changing the <code>&lt;dc:publisher&gt;</code> node.</p>
      <p>It is requested that the accessibility issue be brought to the attention of <span class="ssq">Pipfrosch Press</span> so the issue can be addressed in a future version, or at a minimum so that we can update the <code class="dsq">schema:accessibilityHazard</code> <code>&lt;meta&gt;</code> node, but no such requirement for contact is made.</p>
      <p>Regardless of whether or you not you contact <span class="ssq">Pipfrosch Press</span> about the accessibility issue, you have our thanks for helping to reduce an accessibility barrier for someone who wishes to access the content.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="titlepage" aria-labelledby="titlepageh2">
    <h2 id="titlepageh2">The Title Page</h2>
    <p>When distributing modified versions of <span class="ssq">The Complete Work</span> or <span class="ssq">The Creative Work</span>, take special care with the title page of your derivative work. The following conditions <em>must</em> be met:</p>
    <p>The title of the modified work must differ.</p>
    <p><span class="ssq">Pipfrosch Press</span> <em>must not</em> be indicated as the publisher.</p>
    <p><span class="ssq">Pipfrosch Press</span> <abbr>ISBN</abbr> codes must not be used.</p>
    <p>In compiance with the <a href="CC_BY-SA_4_0.xhtml"><abbr>CC BY-SA</abbr> 4.0</a> license, the title of <span class="ssq">The Creative Work</span> must be specified as the original work that has been modified and <span class="ssq">Pipfrosch Press</span> <strong>MUST</strong> be prominently referenced as the creator of the original work that has been modified.</p>
    <section id="curators2" aria-labelledby="curators2h3">
      <h3 id="curators2h3">Title Page Content Curator Exception</h3>
      <p><span class="ssq">Content Curators</span> and <span class="ssq">Pipfrosch Press</span> approved content authors working under the authority of a <span class="ssq">Content Curator</span> do not need to worry about changing the title or publisher but the version of this work they are working on <em>must not</em> contain an <abbr>ISBN</abbr> code.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="accessibility2" aria-labelledby="a11y2h3">
      <h3 id="a11y2h3" class="a11y">Title Page Accessibility Rights</h3>
      <p>Libraries, Schools, or other institutions who need to modify this work <em>for the explicit purpose</em> of providing missing accessibility needs for a user with a disability are <em>explicitly</em> allowed to do so without needing to worry about changing the title, publisher, or removing the <abbr>ISBN</abbr> code from <span class="ssq">The Title Page</span>.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
  <section id="partial" aria-labelledby="partialh2">
    <h2 id="partialh2">Individual File Modification and Redistribution</h2>
    <p>Any <span class="ssq">Text Creative Resource</span> may be redistributed with or without modification under the terms of the <a href="CC_BY-SA_4_0.xhtml"><abbr>CC BY-SA</abbr> 4.0</a> license.</p>
    <p>When modifying a <span class="ssq">Text Creative Resource</span> that has been reviewed by a <span class="ssq">Scientific Reviewer</span>, reference to the <span class="ssq">Scientific Reviewer</span> <em>must</em> be removed as the review no longer applies to the modified content.</p>
    <p>Any <span class="ssq">Non-Text Creative Resource</span> may be redistributed with or without modification under the terms of the <a href="CC_BY-SA_4_0.xhtml"><abbr>CC BY-SA</abbr> 4.0</a> license but <em>in some cases</em> may also be redistributed under the terms of a different license.</p>
    <p>Each <span class="ssq">Non-Text Creative Resource</span> will have an accompanying metadata file of the same file name except using a <code class="dsq">.xml</code> file extension. These <span class="ssq">Metadata Files</span> will include the relevant license for the resource, which will be one of the following licenses:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="CC_BY-SA_4_0.xhtml">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License</a></li>
      <li><a href="CC_BY-SA_3_0.xhtml">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported</a></li>
      <li><a href="CC_BY_4_0.xhtml">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Public License</a></li>
      <li><a href="CC0_1_0.xhtml">Creative Commons <abbr>CC0</abbr> 1.0 Universal</a></li>
      <li><a href="Pixabay_20200218.xhtml">Pixabay License</a></li>
      <li><a href="https://copyright.cornell.edu/publicdomain" title="Internet Resouece">Public Domain</a></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  <section id="goodfaith" aria-labelledby="goodfaithh2">
    <h2 id="goodfaithh2">Good Faith</h2>
    <p>None of the conditions specified in this documented are intended to conflict with Good Faith re-use and/or modification of <span class="ssq">The Creative Work</span>. The <a href="CC_BY-SA_4_0.xhtml"><abbr>CC BY-SA</abbr> 4.0</a> license was specifically selected to allow Good Faith re-use and/or modification of <span class="ssq">The Creative Work</span>.</p>
    <p><strong>IN THE EVENT ANY OF THESE TERMS CONFLICT WITH YOUR RIGHTS UNDER THE TERMS OF THE <abbr>CC BY-SA</abbr> 4.0 LICENSE, THE TERMS OF THAT LICENSE TAKE PRECEDENCE.</strong></p>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>