<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" ssml:alphabet="ipa">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>EBRPD Marsh Creek Trail, Sunset Rd. to Delta Rd</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/urbantrails.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" aria-labelledby="marshcreekh1">
  <h1 id="marshcreekh1"><abbr>EBRPD</abbr> Marsh Creek Trail, Sunset Rd. to Delta Rd</h1>
  <p>Marsh Creek Trail is a project of the East Bay Regional Park District (<abbr>EBRPD</abbr>). Website: <a href="https://www.ebparks.org/parks/trails/marsh_creek/default.htm" title="Internet Resource">Marsh Creek Regional Trail</a></p>
  <p>The segment of the trail this page covers extends from Sunset Road to Delta Road, I rarely hike other portions of the trail.</p>
  <p>In addition to the trail itself, there is a field off a side trail that I consider to be part of this trail.</p>
  <p>Unless otherwise posted, this segment of the trail is open between the hours of 5:00 A.M. and 10:00 P.M.</p>
  <p>There are five access points to the trail (Google Maps links coming):</p>
  <ul>
    <!-- note to self - get GPS and make links - http://maps.google.com/?ie=UTF8&hq=&ll=35.028028,-106.536655&z=13 -->
    <li>Sunset Road where it passes over the creek (no parking)</li>
    <li>Homecoming Park (very limited parking)</li>
    <li>Tresch Ave (Parking lot)</li>
    <li>Sunset Athletic Complex (Parking lot, long trail to Marsh Creek Trail)</li>
    <li>Delta Road where it passes over the creek (No official parking)</li>
  </ul>
  <p>You can also enter the trail at Creekside Park off of Laurel Road and walk to this trail segment from there.</p>
  
  <!-- accessibility -->
  <section id="accessibility" aria-labelledby="accessibilityh2">
    <h2 id="accessibilityh2">Accessibility Analysis</h2>
    <p>This portion of the trail is paved and very flat, it is wheelchair friendly.</p>
    <p>Getting to this portion of the trail by bus may be difficult, there is not a paved route from the nearest bus stops that I could find to any of the trail access points. I will be bringing that to the attention of the City of Brentwood.</p>
    <p>There are no benches to sit and rest but this segment of the trail is relatively short but I have not yet calculated distances.</p>
    <p>There are no public restroom that are easily accessible from this portion of the trail.</p>
    <p>There are no drinking fountains on this portion of the trail.</p>
    <p>There are cyclists who sometimes ride a little too fast for my comfort, but the visibility is really clear, the danger of being creamed by one coming around a blind corner too fast is very low. Most cyclists on this trail are actually quite considerate of pedestrians.</p>
  </section>
  
  <!-- Confirmed Birds of Marsh Creek Trail -->
  <section id="confirmedbirds" aria-labelledby="confirmedbirdsh2">
    <h2 id="confirmedbirdsh2">Confirmed Birds of Marsh Creek Trail</h2>
    <p>The following bird species have been confirmed with records in the iNaturalist Database as present within this segment of Marsh Creek Trail:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="../SpeciesProfiles/Birds/Order_Pelecaniformes.xhtml">Pelicans, Herons, and Allies</a><ul>
        <li><a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/observations/38699505" title="Internet Resource">Great Blue Heron</a></li>
        <li><a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/observations/39041454" title="Internet Resource">Great Egret</a></li>
        <li><a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/observations/38626478" title="Internet Resource">Green Heron</a></li>
        <li><a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/observations/38626196" title="Internet Resource">Snowy Egret</a></li>
        <li><a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/observations/39041901" title="Internet Resource">American Bittern</a></li>
        <li><a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/observations/38784220" title="Internet Resource">Double-crested Cormorant</a></li>
      </ul></li>
      <li>Ducks and Geese<ol>
        <li><a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/observations/38626238" title="Internet Resource">Mallard</a></li>
        <li><a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/observations/39041645" title="Internet Resource">Common Merganser</a></li>
        <li><a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/observations/38626446" title="Internet Resource">Hooded Merganser</a></li>
      </ol></li>
    </ul>
  </section>
  <!-- Confirmed Herps of Marsh Creek Trail -->
  <section id="confirmedherps" aria-labelledby="confirmedherpsh2">
    <h2 id="confirmedherpsh2">Confirmed Herps of Marsh Creek Trail</h2>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="../SpeciesProfiles/Herps/Order_Anura.xhtml"></a><ul>
        <li><a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/observations/38597080" title="Internet Resource">American Bullfrog</a></li>
        <li>Sierran Treefrog (male calling, no record in iNat yet</li>
      </ul></li>
      <li><a href="../SpeciesProfiles/Herps/Order_Caudata.xhtml">Newts and Salamanders</a><ul>
        <li><a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/observations/38784709" title="Internet Resource">California Slender Salamander</a></li>
      </ul></li>
      <li><a href="../SpeciesProfiles/Herps/Order_Squamata.xhtml">Lizards</a><ul>
        <li><a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/observations/38596929" title="Internet Resource">Western Fence Lizard</a></li>
      </ul></li>
      <li><a href="../SpeciesProfiles/Herps/Suborder_Serpentine.xhtml">Snakes</a><ul>
        <li>California Kingsnake (<abbr>DOR</abbr> found last year)</li>
        <li>Gopher Snake (<abbr>DOR</abbr> found last year)</li>
      </ul></li>
      <li><a href="../SpeciesProfiles/Herps/Order_Testudines.xhtml">Turtles and Tortoises</a><ul>
        <li><a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/observations/38596619" title="Internet Resource">Western Pond Turtle</a></li>
        <li><a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/observations/38595732" title="Internet Resource">Red-eared Slider</a></li>
      </ul></li>
    </ul>
    <section id="suspectedherps" aria-labelledby="suspectedherpsh3">
      <h3>Highly Suspected Herps of Marsh Creek Trail</h3>
      <ol>
        <li>Southern Alligator Lizard</li>
        <li>California Legless Lizard</li>
        <li>Common Gartersnake (Valley Subspecies)</li>
        <li>Western Terrestrial Gartersnake</li>
        <li>Western Yellow-bellied Racer</li>
        <li>Common Sharp-tailed Snake</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>