<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US" lang="en-US"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Glossary of Terms</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="glossary" role="doc-glossary" aria-labelledby="concepth1">
  <h1 id="concepth1" class="glossary">Conceptual Terms</h1>
  <p>This appendix contains terms of a conceptual nature that are intrinsically linked categorically.</p>
  <section id="popres" aria-labelledby="popresh2">
    <h2 id="popresh2">Species Population Residence Classification</h2>
    <p>This section defines terms related to the classification of a species based upon the residence nature of the population within Contra Costa County.</p>
    <section id="gls.native_species" aria-labelledby="nativeh3">
      <h3 id="nativeh3">Native Species</h3>
      <p>A naturally occurring species. A <dfn>Native Species</dfn> is a species that reproduces within Contra Costa County for which the reproducing population either dispersed into Contra Costa College by natural means from a naturally occurring population elsewhere or evolved within Contra Costa County as part of a <a href="glossary.xhtml#gls.chronospecies" class="gls">chronospecies</a> population that was present in the geographical region before Contra Costa County became a designated entity.</p>
      <p>Examples of a Native Species include the California Red-legged Frog <span class="taxon">(Rana draytonii)</span>, the Blue Oak <span class="taxon">(Quercus douglasii)</span>, and the quite likely now extinct Sooty Crayfish <span class="taxon">(Pacifastacus nigrescens)</span>.</p>
      <p>A quite possibly unacheivable goal of this field guide is to eventually include every Native Species that can be observed without the aid magnification, including those that are now extinct, that were present within the county when John Marsh first settled here.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="gls.natural_migrant_species" aria-labelledby="migranth3">
      <h3 id="migranth3">Natural Migrant Species</h3>
      <p>A regular naturally occurring visitor species. A <dfn>Natural Migrant Species</dfn> is a species that does not regularly breed in Contra Costa Costa County but for that can be found resising here during part of the year as a regular migration pattern that is part of the <a href="glossary.xhtml#gls.natural_history" class="gls">natural history</a> for the species.</p>
      <p>Examples of a Natural Migrant Species include the Hooded Merganser <span class="taxon">(Lophodytes cucullatus)</span> and the Golden-crowned Sparrow <span class="taxon">(Zonotrichia atricapilla)</span>.</p>
      <p>A quite possibly unacheivable goal of this field guide is to eventually include every Natural Migrant Species that can be observed without the aid magnification, including those that are now extinct, that were present within the county when John Marsh first settled here. It may be realistic to achieve this goal with birds within a few years, but I do not know if it is realistic to achieve this goal with insects.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="gls.vagrant_species" aria-labelledby="vagranth3">
      <h3 id="vagranth3">Vagrant Species</h3>
      <p>Occassional visitor by natural means. A <dfn>Vagrant Species</dfn> is a species which wander into Contra Costa County most likely from a wild population, but for which visiting Contra Costa County is accidental rather than part of their <a href="glossary.xhtml#gls.natural_history" class="gls">natural history</a>.</p>
      <p>An example of a Vagrant Species that has visited Contra Costa County recently is the Eastern Kingbird <span class="taxon">(Tyrannus tyrannus)</span> for which a sighting was confirmed in <time>2017</time> at Heather Farm.</p>
      <p>Vagrant species will generally not be covered in this field guide unless they have visited more than once. For example, Humphrey the Humpback Whale <span class="taxon">(Megaptera novaeangliae)</span> visited Contra Costa County in <time>1985</time> but it would be ridiculous to include Humpback Whales in this guide.</p>
      <p>Whether or not to include a Vagrant Species will <em>generally</em> be left up to the discression of the curator for the taxon group the vagrant falls within. As chief editor I would say yes to the Eastern Kingbird if the Avian Curator wanted to include it, but no to the Humpback Whale if the Mammal Curator wanted to include it. Unless of course it starts to happen with more frequency and with more than one wayward whale.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="gls.domesticated_species" aria-labelledby="domestich3">
      <h3 id="domestich3">Domesticated Species</h3>
      <p>A <dfn>Domesticated Species</dfn> is a species that has undergone many generations of selective breeding by humans either for agricultural purposes, decorative purposes, or for the pet trade.</p>
      <p>Generally speaking, the selective breeding process has altered the <a href="glossary.xhtml#gls.genetic_diversity" class="gls">genetic diversity</a> of the species such that it has obvious <a href="glossary.xhtml#gls.phenotype" class="gls">phenotype</a> differences from the wild stock it was domesticated from.</p>
      <p>In many cases, the process of domestication with animals alters an animal such that it becomes dependant upon humans and can not survive as a wild animal outside of urban areas or has a radically different <a href="glossary.xhtml#gls.natural_history" class="gls">natural history</a> than its non-domesticated counterparts.</p>
      <p>Examples of Domesticated Species frequently encountered interacting with our wild ecology in Contra Costa County include the Domestic Pigeon <span class="taxon">(Columba livia domestica)</span>, the Domestic Cat <span class="taxon">(Felis catus)</span>, and Cattle <span class="taxon">(Bos taurus)</span>.</p>
      <p>The inclusion of non-feral Domesticated Species within this field guide will <em>generally</em> be left up to the discression of the curator for the taxon group the Domesticated Species falls within.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="gls.released_curiosity" aria-labelledby="releasedh3">
      <h3 id="releasedh3">Released Curiosity</h3>
      <p>A <dfn>Released Curiosity</dfn> is a pet that either escapes or is released, or an exotic animal brought in by accident, for which there is no indication of a functioning population.</p>
      <p>An example of a released curiosity in Contra Costa County would be the Chinese Fire-bellied Newt <span class="taxon">(Cynops orientalis)</span> I found within Tilden Regional Park in <time datetime="2010-04-02">2010</time> (photo voucher at <a href="http://www.naherp.com/viewrecord.php?r_id=41483" title="Internet Resource">http://www.naherp.com/viewrecord.php?r_id=41483</a>). Various pet turtles are also often intentionally released, several different species can be spotted at the artificial pond at Los Medanos College, such as the Spiny Softshell <span class="taxon">(Apalone spinifera)</span> and the Western Painted Turtle <span class="taxon">(Chrysemys picta bellii)</span>.</p>
      <p>The inclusion of Released Curiosities within this field guide will <em>generally</em> be discouraged unless it is a somewhat common occurrence.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="gls.introduced_species" aria-labelledby="introducedh3">
      <h3 id="introducedh3">Introduced Species</h3>
      <p>An <dfn>Introduced Species</dfn> is a species with a sustaining population that did not come to Contra Costa County by natural means. Usually a sustaining population means it is reproducing. In some cases, however, the population may recruit new members by continual releases of pets and might not be reproducing in sustainable quantities at all.</p>
      <p>An example of an introduced species that does sustainably reproduce is the Rio Grande Wild Turkey <span class="taxon">(Meleagris gallopavo intermedia)</span>. An example of an introduced species that largely depends upon continual pet releases is the Red-Eared Slider <span class="taxon">(Trachemys scripta elegans)</span>.</p>
      <p>Given a very long period of time, it is possible for an Introduced Species to become a Native Species, co-evolving balance with the ecosystem. This appears to be the case with the Dingo in Australia. Quite often a lot of existing Native Species are driven to extinction in the process.</p>
      <p>A quite possibly acheivable goal of this field guide is to eventually include every <em><a href="glossary.xhtml#gls.extant" class="gls">extant</a></em> Introduced Species that can be observed without the aid magnification.</p>
      <p>Inclusion of Introduced Species that are no longer extant will <em>generally</em> be left up to the discression of the curator for the taxon group the Domesticated Species falls within.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="gls.feral_species" aria-labelledby="feralh3">
      <h3 id="feralh3">Feral Species</h3>
      <p>A <dfn>Feral Species</dfn> is used for a population that has gone wild from relatively recent domesticated ancestors. With the exception of feral equines (not present in this county), as a result of domestication feral populations generally have a different natural history and often a different phenotype than their wild ancestral stock.</p>
      <p>Examples of feral species in Contra Costa County include the Feral Pig <span class="taxon">(Sus scrofa domesticus)</span> and the Feral Pigeon <span class="taxon">(Columba livia domestica)</span>.</p>
      <p>All feral species are also introduced species.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="gls.invasive_species" aria-labelledby="invasiveh3">
      <h3 id="invasiveh3">Invasive Species</h3>
      <p>An <dfn>Invasive Species</dfn> is an Introduced Species that quickly establishes new populations at a high ecological cost to native species, sometimes causing their extinction. In some cases, it is easy to make the case that an Introduced Species is an Invasive Species. In other cases, it may be somewhat of a judgement call.</p>
      <p>Clear cases of Invasive Species within Contra Costa County include the American Bullfrog <span class="taxon">(Lithobates catesbeianus)</span>, the Argentine Ant <span class="taxon">(Linepithema humile)</span>, and the Signal Crayfish <span class="taxon">(Pacifastacus leniusculus)</span>.</p>
      <p>In some cases for Invasive Species not yet present, at the discretion of the discression of the curator for the taxon group a <em>potentially</em> Invasive Species falls within, it may be included in this field guide.</p>
      <p>An example of such a species would be the Red Imported Fire Ant <span class="taxon">(Solenopsis invicta)</span>. To the best of my knowledge, no populations are known within Contra Costa County. Including that species in this field guide may help identify a population while it can still be destroyed, preventing an infestation.</p>
    </section>
  <!-- end popres -->
  </section>
  <section id="htypes" aria-labelledby="htypesh2">
    <h2 id="htypesh2">Habitat Types</h2>
    <p>This section different biome habitat types often found within Contra Costa County.</p>
    <section id="gls.chaparral" aria-labelledby="chaparralh3">
      <h3 id="chaparralh3">Chaparral Habitat</h3>
      <p>Chaparral is a Mediterranean Climate biome visually dominated by shrubs adapted to survive drought conditions and frequent wildfires. The shrubs that grow in them are often referred to as ‘drought resistant’ but in many respects, I think a better term would be ‘drought dependant’ because if the periodic droughts we experience <em>did not happen</em> they would likely get choked out by other types of plants.</p>
      <p>The shrubs that grow in chaparral generally have very woody stems that branch out low to the ground and tough leaves that do not dry out easily.</p>
      <p><dfn>Open-scrub Chaparral</dfn> refers to a denity of shrubs that is low enough a person can easily enter the area and walk between the shrubs without needing to destroy them. This type of chaparral is often accompanied by low-growth wildflowers, basking lizards, rabbits, and coyotes. Silver Lupine <span class="taxon">(Lupinus albifrons)</span> is an example of a shrub that is frequently associated with Open-scrub Chaparral.</p>
      <p><dfn>Closed-scrub Chaparral</dfn> refers to a density of shrubs that is high enough it is difficult for people (or other large mammals) to penetrate without destroying some of the shrubs. This type of chapparal is often utilized by small rodents and ground-dwelling birds. Mount Diablo Manzanita <span class="taxon">(Arctostaphylos auriculata)</span> is an example of a shrub that is frequently associated with Closed-scrub Chaparral.</p>
      <p>If the <a href="../SpeciesProfiles/Mammals/Berkeley_Kangaroo_Rat.xhtml">Berkeley Kangaroo Rat</a> <span class="taxon">(Dipodomys heermanni berkeleyensis)</span> is still extant, it almost certainly is dwelling within chararral habitat.</p>
      <section id="desert" aria-labelledby="deserth4">
        <h4 id="deserth4">Desert Chaparral</h4>
        <p>While not applicable to Contra Costa County, <dfn>Desert Chaparral</dfn> is a form of chaparral habitat found in rain shadows rather than in a mediterranean climate. Desert chaparral typically covers less than half of the available land as less water is available.</p>
      </section>
    </section>
    <section id="gls.riparian" aria-labelledby="riparianh3">
      <h3 id="riparianh3">Riparian Habitat</h3>
      <p>Riparian is the lush growth habitat that often grows directlty adjacent to a permanent stream, river, or lake, utilizing the water provided by the adjacent stream, river, or lake.</p>
      <p>Riparian habitat is unfortunately often damaged by city development and the alteration of the watershed, people like to build communities where there is water and where water does flow through urban areas, often there are houses and concrete preventing the growth of riparian vegetation.</p>
    </section>
  <!-- end htypes -->
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>