<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US" lang="en-US"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Glossary of Terms</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="glossary" role="doc-glossary" aria-labelledby="termsh1">
  <h1 id="termsh1" class="glossary">Glossary of Terms</h1>
  <!-- redo below as a list w/ css -->
  <p role="navigation">Jump to letter:
    <a href="#gls.allele">A</a>
    <a href="#gls.chordate">C</a>
    <a href="#gls.extant">E</a>
    <a href="#gls.genotype">G</a>
    <a href="#gls.introgression">I</a>
    <a href="#gls.monophyletic">M</a>
    <a href="#gls.natural_history">N</a>
    <a href="#gls.paraphyletic">P</a>
    <a href="#gls.quantization">Q</a>
    <a href="#gls.shutterbug">S</a>
    <a href="#gls.tetrapod">T</a>
    <a href="#gls.ungulate">U</a>
    <a href="#gls.vertebrate">V</a>
  </p>
  <dl>
<!-- Letter A -->
    <dt><dfn id="gls.allele">Allele</dfn></dt>
      <dd>A specific variation of a gene that occurs at the same place on the chromosome as other variations of the same gene. New alleles are created by random mutations in the copying of existing alleles, and may rapidly spread by organism reproduction through the species via natural selection if the mutation provides a benefit to the species.</dd>
<!-- Letter C -->
    <dt><dfn id="gls.chordate">Chordate</dfn></dt>
      <dd>Animals within the phylum <span class="taxon">Chordata</span>. All vertebrates are members of the Chordata phylum.</dd>
    <dt><dfn id="gls.chronospecies">Chronospecies</dfn></dt>
      <dd>A species defined in the context of a time frame. Many chronospecies have evolved into populations with a distinctively identifiably different <a href="#gls.phenotype">phenotype</a> and are therefore classified as a different species in the newer time frame.</dd>
    <dt><dfn id="gls.conspecific">Conspecific</dfn></dt>
      <dd>When two or more populations are the same biological species, they are said to be conspecific.</dd>
    <dt><dfn id="gls.cryptic_species_complex">Cryptic Species Complex</dfn></dt>
      <dd>A <a href="#gls.species_complex">species complex</a> for which it is very difficult or even impossible to classify some specimens to the specific species within the complex based purely on the visually expressed <a href="#gls.phenotype">phenotype</a>.</dd>
<!-- Letter E -->
    <dt><dfn id="gls.extant">Extant</dfn></dt>
      <dd>Continues to have a surviving population.</dd>
    <dt><dfn id="gls.extirpated">Extirpated</dfn></dt>
      <dd>A formerly reproducing population that no longer exists is an extirpated population. Locally (or globally) extinct.</dd>
<!-- Letter G -->
    <dt><dfn id="gls.genetic_diversity">Genetic Diversity</dfn></dt>
      <dd>The variation of <a href="#gls.allele">alleles</a> available within a population.</dd>
    <dt><dfn id="gls.genotype">Genotype</dfn></dt>
      <dd>The genetic makeup of a particular individual organism, the specific <a href="#gls.allele">alleles</a> that specific organism inherited from its ancestors.</dd>
<!-- Letter I -->
    <dt><dfn id="gls.introgression">Introgression</dfn></dt>
      <dd>The transfer of <a href="#gls.allele">alleles</a> that evolved in one grouping of organisms into another grouping of organisms through hybridization events between the two groupings.</dd>
<!-- Letter M -->
    <dt><dfn id="gls.monophyletic">Monophyletic</dfn></dt>
      <dd>When a grouping of organisms is descended from a most recent common ancestor to the exclusion of all organisms not within the grouping, the grouping is called a monophyletic grouping. Contrast with <a href="#gls.paraphyletic">paraphyletic</a>.</dd>
    <dt><dfn id="gls.monotypic">Monotypic</dfn></dt>
      <dd>A taxonomical grouping containing only one species. A taxonomic grouping higher than the species level (such as a genus) that only contains a single species is referred to as a monotypic grouping, whether or not multiple subspecies are described. A species that does not contain any subspecies is less commonly but also referred to as a monotypic species.</dd>
    <dt><dfn id="gls.mutualism">Mutualism</dfn></dt>
      <dd>Describes the ecology where two or more biological species interact with each other for the mutual benefit of all species involved.</dd>
<!-- Letter N -->
    <dt><dfn id="gls.natural_history">Natural History</dfn></dt>
      <dd>In the context of a species, the study of the natural behaviours of a species in all of its life stages and how the species interacts with the environment around it and the ecogical niche in ecology of the environment around it.</dd>
    <dt><dfn id="gls.neotonic">Neotonic</dfn></dt>
      <dd>In biology, neotonic generally refers to an animal in the larval stage of a species that does not go through metamorphis to the next life stage but continues in the larval stage.</dd>
<!-- Letter P -->
    <dt><dfn id="gls.paraphyletic">Paraphyletic</dfn></dt>
      <dd>When a grouping of organisms for which known organisms <em>outside</em> the grouping also descended from the most recent common ancestor of the grouping, the grouping is called a paraphyletic group. In the taxonomy ‘Tree of Life’ (e.g. Class, Order, Family, Genus, Species, etc.), paraphyletic groups are avoided as much as possible. Contrast with <a href="#gls.monophyletic">monophyletic</a>.</dd>
    <dt><dfn id="gls.phenotype">Phenotype</dfn></dt>
      <dd>The observable expression of a <a href="#gls.genotype">genotype</a>, influenced by natural selection or (in captivity) selective breeding. Please note that it is not always easy to determine if an observable characteristic is the result of the genotype or another factor, such as diet or climate.</dd>
<!-- Letter Q -->
    <dt><dfn id="gls.quantization">Quantization</dfn></dt>
      <dd>In Mathematics, when values from a large (often but not always infinite) set are mapped to a smaller subset of values, it is called quantization. For example, there are an infinite number of length value between 0 and 1 meter, but if we measure something to the nearest millimeter, we are are mapping that infinite set to a smaller finite set that contains 1000 possible values.</dd>
<!-- Letter S -->
    <dt><dfn id="gls.quantization_error">Quantization Error</dfn></dt>
      <dd>Quantization Error is the difference between an actual value in a set and the <a href="#gls.quantization">quantized</a> value it is assigned. Basically the rounding error.</dd>
    <dt><dfn id="gls.quantization_noise">Quantization Noise</dfn></dt>
      <dd>Usually used in terms of audio and images, when an analog signal is <a href="g#ls.quantization">quantized</a> for digital storage, quantization noise is the difference between the analog signal that can be reproduced from that digital signal and the original band-limited analog signal <em>before</em> it was quantized. In audio, audible quantization noise has the characteristics of tape hiss. In audio recorded at 16 bits per sample at safe listening levels, quantization noise is only audible when the recording volume was too low. Increasing the bits per sample during recording gives more leeway with the recording volume, as the resulting <a href="#gls.quantization_error">quantization error</a> is smaller. Professional equipment usually uses 32 bits per sample even though most professioal sound engineers are skilled enough to get by with just 16.</dd>
    <dt><dfn id="gls.shutterbug">Shutterbug</dfn></dt>
      <dd>A camera enthusiast who really enjoys pursuing high quality photography. Shutterbugs are very important to field guides and citizen science.</dd>
    <dt><dfn id="gls.speciation">Speciation</dfn></dt>
      <dd>The evolutionary process in which a population within a species differentiates itself from other populations within the species to become a distinct separate species from those other populations, on a different evolutionary path.</dd>
    <dt><dfn id="gls.species_complex">Species Complex</dfn></dt>
      <dd>Two or more species that are so closely related they are difficult to distinguish from each other and may still have frequently occurring gene flow (<a href="#gls.introgression">introgression</a>) happening.</dd>
<!-- Letter T -->
    <dt><dfn id="gls.tetrapod">Tetrapod</dfn></dt>
      <dd>The <a href="#gls.monophyletic">monophyletic</a> group including all vertebrates that possess four limbs, and all their descendants (such as snakes and legless lizards).</dd>
<!-- Letter U -->
    <dt><dfn id="gls.ungulate">Ungulate</dfn></dt>
      <dd>Hoofed mammals, such as deer and cattle and horses and pigs.</dd>
<!-- Letter V -->
    <dt><dfn id="gls.vertebrate">Vertebrate</dfn></dt>
      <dd><a href="#gls.chordate">Chordates</a> that possess a backbone.</dd>
  </dl>
</section>
</body>
</html>