<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" ssml:alphabet="ipa">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Works Cited</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/wcited.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<section epub:type="appendix" role="doc-appendix" aria-labelledby="wcitedh1">
  <h1 id="wcitedh1">Works Cited</h1>
  <section id="journal" aria-labelledby="journalh2">
    <h2 id="journalh2">Academic Journal References</h2>
    <dl>
      <dt id="Alvarez_etal-2013">Alvarez et. al. 2013</dt>
        <dd>Alvarez, Jeff A., David G. Cook, Julie L. Yee, Michael G. van Hattem, Darren R. Fong, and Robert N. Fisher. 2013. <span class="wctitle">Comparative Microhabitat Characteristics at Oviposition Sites of the California Red-legged Frog <span class="taxon">Rana draytonii</span></span>. <span class="wcjournal">Herpetological Conservation and Biology</span>, 8(3), 2013, pp. 539–551.</dd>
      <dt id="Barry_Fellers-2013">Barry and Fellers 2013</dt>
        <dd>Barry, Sean J. and Gary M. Fellers. 2013. <span class="wctitle">History and Status of the California Red-legged Frog <span class="taxon">(Rana draytonii)</span> in the Sierra Nevada, California, <abbr>USA</abbr></span>. <span class="wcjournal">Herpetological Conservation and Biology</span>, 8(2), 2013, pp. 456-502.</dd>
      <dt id="Conlon_etal-2007">Conlon et. al. 2007</dt>
        <dd>Conlon, J. Michael, Ahmed al-Dhaheri, Eissa al-Mutawa, Rokaya al-Kharrge, Eman Ahmed, Jolanta Kolodziejek, Norbert Nowotny, Per F. Nielsen, and Carlos Davidson. 2007. <span class="wctitle">Peptide defenses of the Cascades frog <span class="taxon">Rana cascadae</span>: implications for the evolutionary history of frogs of the <span class="taxon">Amerana</span> species group</span>. <span class="wcjournal">Peptides</span>, 28(6), 2007, pp. 1268–1274.</dd>
      <dt id="Jennings_and_Hayes-1985">Jennings and Hayes 1985</dt>
        <dd>Jennings, Mark R. and Marc P. Hayes. 1985. <span class="wctitle">Pre-1900 Overharvest of California Red-legged Frogs <span class="taxon">(Rana aurora draytonii)</span>: The Inducement For Bullfrog <span class="taxon">(Rana catesbeiana)</span> Introduction</span>. <span class="wcjournal">Herpetologica</span>, 41(1), 1985, pp. 94–103.</dd>
      <dt id="Starkey_etal-2003">Starkey et. al. 2003</dt>
        <dd>Starkey, David E., H. Bradley Shaffer, Russell L. Burke, Michael R. J. Forstner, John B. Iverson, Fredric J. Janzen, Anders G. J. Rhodin, and Gordin R. Ultsch. 2003. <span class="wctitle">Molecular Systematics, Phylogeography, and the Effects of Pleistocene Glaciation in the Painted Turtle (<span class="taxon">Chrysemys picta</span>) Complex</span>. <span class="wcjournal">Evolution</span>, 57(1), 2003, pp. 119–128.</dd>
    </dl>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>