<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" ssml:alphabet="ipa">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Avian Dinosaurs</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/common.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/taxon_birds.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="part" role="doc-part" aria-labelledby="birdsh1">
  <div class="taxonhgroup">
    <h1 id="birdsh1">Avian Dinosaurs of Contra Costa County</h1>
    <h2>Not Currently Curated</h2>
  </div>
  <hr />
  <div role="navigation" aria-labelledby="contentsh2">
    <h2 id="contentsh2">Contents (incomplete, some groups missins)</h2>
    <ol>
      <li><a href="Order_Pelecaniformes.xhtml">Pelicans, Herons, and Allies</a></li>
      <li><a href="Order_Anseriformes.xhtml">Geese, Swans, and Ducks</a></li>
      <li><a href="Suborder_Scolopaci.xhtml">Sandpipers and Allies</a></li>
      <li><a href="Order_Accipitriformes.xhtml">Vultures, Eagles, Hawks, and Allies</a></li>
      <li><a href="Order_Columbiformes.xhtml">Pigeons and Doves</a></li>
      <li><a href="Order_Apodiformes.xhtml">Swifts and Hummingbirds</a></li>
      <li><a href="Suborder_Passeri.xhtml">Songbirds</a></li>
    </ol>
  </div>
  <section id="overview" aria-labelledby="overviewh2">
    <h2 id="overviewh2">Avian Overview</h2>
    <p>The (currently incomplete) listing of birds in Contra Costa County is primarily based upon the <span class="booktitle">Birds of Northern California</span> by Quady, Dunn, Garrett, and Small (R.W, Morse Company, <time>2015</time>; <abbr>ISBN</abbr> <a href="https://www.abebooks.com/products/isbn/9780964081093/30575747595" title="Internet Resource">978-0-9640810-9-3</a>) in combination with records within the the <a href="https://www.inaturalist.org/" title="Internet Resource">iNaturalist</a> database to verify a presence within the county.</p>
    <p>A few species have been added for which there were records <em>close</em> to the county, and two species were added because they belong to species with currently expanding range that I expect will soon be present within the county if they are not already.</p>
    <p>In the event of a missed species, the easiest way to get it added is to provide an iNaturalist record for the species that is clearly identifiable as the species that needs to be added.</p>
    <p>The birds represented here have largely been broken up into monophyletic groupings at the taxonomical Order or Suborder level, but please see the taxonomy notes section of each grouping.</p>
    <p>Within the groupings at the Order or Suborder level, individual species are <em>generally</em> put into a monophyletic sub-grouping, although some sub-groupings contain birds from more than one clade that together may not be monophyletic. A lot of changes are taking place within Avian taxonomy</p>
    <p>For the grouping at the Order or Suborder level, I chose to place birds that either spend a considerable time in water or very close to water first. As a relatively new birder, I personally find those birds (with the noted exception of gulls) easier to learn how to identify by sight. These are then followed by birds that often are referred to as ‘Birds of Prey’, followed by groupings that are primarily ground-dwelling birds, and then the rest with <span class="taxon">Passerines</span> at the end. <span class="taxon">Passerines</span> are both the most numerous as far as species count and include some of the most difficult birds to learn to distinguish from each other by sight.</p>
    <p>If you are new to birding in Contra Costa County, I highly recommend you start at one of the shoreline parks under <a href="https://www.ebparks.org/" title="Internet Resource"><abbr>EBRPD</abbr></a> management, but if you can not easily get to one, start where you can.</p>
    <p>I also highly recommend you follow <a href="https://twitter.com/JasonWardNY" title="Internet Resource">Jason Ward</a> on Twitter, and watch his <a href="https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=%23BirdsofNorthAmericaTopic" title="Internet Resource">Birds of North America</a> videos on YouTube.</p>
    <section id="curator" aria-labelledby="curatorh3">
      <h3 id="curatorh3">Note from the Editor</h3>
      <p>The Avian Taxon Group does not currently have a curator. When a curator is found, the organization of this Taxon Group may go through radical changes.</p>
      <p>Until a Taxon Group curator for Avian Dinosaurs is found, many species will lack images and even more will lack proper descriptions.</p>
      <p>I am hesitant to accept offers to write missing species descriptions until such time as there is a Taxon Group curator who is a well-versed experienced birder to validate the species descriptions.</p>
      <p>Clearly identifiable photographs from within the county however are welcome, please contact me at <a href="mailto:pipfroschpress@gmail.com" title="Email Address">pipfroschpress@gmail.com</a>.</p>
      <p>Just to be clear, I am not a professional quality photographer. If you take a photo that is better than one of mine that already exists, <em>pretty please</em> I want it.</p>
    </section>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>