<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" ssml:alphabet="ipa">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8"/>
  <title>Book Structure</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/fonts.css"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/common.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="frontmatter">
<section epub:type="introduction" aria-labelledby="structureh1">
  <h1 id="structureh1">Field Guide Structure</h1>
  <p>There are several different types of content within this ePub book:</p>
  <ol>
    <li><a href="#speciesaccounts">Species Accounts</a></li>
    <li>Urban Trail Guides</li>
    <li>State and Regional Parks</li>
    <li>Educational Articles</li>
    <li>Appendix Content</li>
  </ol>
  <p>This chapter attempts to explain how those types of content are organized.</p>
  <section id="speciesaccounts" aria-labelledby="speciesaccountsh2">
    <h2 id="speciesaccountsh2">Species Accounts</h2>
    <p>Species are broken up into what are informerly called ‘Taxon Groups’. I say informerly, because they will not always be <a href="appendix/glossary.xhtml#gls.monophyletic" class="gls">monophyletic</a> groupings, but will rather follow the traditional groupings followed by print field guides. For example, field guides for Reptiles and Amphibians do not include Birds, making that grouping <a href="appendix/glossary.xhtml#gls.paraphyletic" class="gls">paraphyletic</a>... (funny comic: <a href="https://xkcd.com/867/" title="Internet Resource">https://xkcd.com/867/</a>)</p>
    <p>Each ‘Taxon Group’ within the field guide has a Taxon Curator and functions much like an independent field guide, only with the ability to link to species accounts in other ‘Taxon Groups’.</p>
    <p>For example, if the Butterfly Taxon Curator is creating a species description for the Acmon Blue <span class="taxon">(Icaricia acmon)</span>, they may wish to link to the species profiles for the specific species of Buckwheats, Lupines, and Trefoils within the county that the caterpillars for these butterflies feed upon. They may also wish to wish to link to the types of ants that these caterpillars have a <a href="appendix/glossary.xhtml#gls.mutualism" class="gls">mutualistic</a> relationship with.</p>
    <p>If species profiles do not yet exist for the species the Butterfly Curator wishes to link to, at a minimum, the Taxon Curator for the needed species can create a stub entry that will allow the link to be created so that writing a species profile for that species becomes important.</p>
    <p>The Butterfly curator may even wish to write the profile for the species outside their ‘Taxon Group’ if the curator for that Taxon has other priorities (or does not yet exist).</p>
    <section id="taxonsection" aria-labelledby="taxonsectionh3">
      <h3 id="taxonsectionh3">Taxon Sections</h3>
      <p>Within each ‘Taxon Group’, the curator for that group will split the group into logical sections, much like a print field guide does.</p>
      <p>In the case of vertebrate groups, it <em>usually</em> is probably best to use monophyletic taxonomical Orders for this splitting, but that will not always the case. Lizards make a logical grouping but actually is a paraphyletic grouping if it does not include snakes. Cormorants are technically in a different Order than <span class="taxon">Pelecaniformes</span> but there are so few members of <span class="taxon">Suliformes</span> in Contra Costa County that it makes sense to lump them with the <span class="taxon">Pelecaniformes</span> as print field guides have traditionally done.</p>
      <p>Each Taxon Section will have a page that acts as an index to all species within Contra Costa County for that section.</p>
      <p>In addition to the index to each species, the Taxon Curator is encouraged to give additional information specific to the grouping.</p>
      <p>When a Taxon Curator creates a section within their group, it is important that the curator attempt to list every species within the section <em>even if there is no page for the species</em>. This will help <a href="appendix/glossary.xhtml#gls.shutterbug" class="gls">shutterbugs</a> know what species need high quality photographs of wild specimens from within the county. It will also help naturalists who are not sure about an identification know what species to search for online if they at least are sure about the section the species <em>probably</em> falls into.</p>
      <p>In many cases, even a section within a Taxon Group will have enough representatives within Contra Costa County that splitting up the section into related species makes sense.</p>
      <p>How the Taxon Curator chooses to do this is largely at their discretion, but for an example of how I chose to do it with snakes, you can look at the local species on the <a href="SpeciesProfiles/Herps/Suborder_Serpentine.xhtml">Snakes</a> page.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="stubpages" aria-labelledby="stubpagesh3">
      <h3 id="stubpagesh3">Species Profile Stub Pages</h3>
      <p>It would be nice if there were species profiles for every macro biology species within Contra Contra Costa County, but that will likely never happen and it will probably take <em>years</em> before even 95% of all <a href="appendix/glossary.xhtml#gls.vertebrate" class="gls">vertebrate</a> species have a complete profile page, and they make up a small percentage of the species total yet are likely to be targeted for content authors.</p>
      <p>A Species Profile stub page is created when either a quality photo of the species exists that can be used, or another page within this book wishes to reference the species, or both— but a species account has not yet been written.</p>
      <p>A species stub page may not be very informative, but the presence of one indicates to the Taxon Curator that getting a proper account written for that species is likely a higher priority than for a species that does not yet have a stub page.</p>
      <p>When this project has a Butterfly curator, plants within the county used as food for butterflies are likely to have many stub pages created and the curators of the relevant taxons those plants belong to will then know that giving those plants priority will help make the Butterfly Taxon Group more complete.</p>
      <p>Naturalists who enjoy this field guide and see a stub page may take the photos, or even volunteer to write the relevant species account.</p>
      <p>Stub pages should not be created just because a species exists. Rather they should be created because their is a need for the species account to have priority, to help another part of the field guide gain value.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="idkeys" aria-labelledby="idkeyssh3">
      <h3 id="idkeyssh3">Identification Keys</h3>
      <p>After the Species Accounts in a Taxon Section, there <em>may</em> be identification keys to help people identify species that could be tricky to identify.</p>
      <p>This is very important, photographs and descriptions in a Species Account alone do not do a very good job at teaching someone what is important to look for when trying to differentiate what they encountered amongst several different possibilities.</p>
      <p>If you only saw the photo of a White-crowned Sparrow <span class="taxon">(Zonotrichia leucophrys)</span> in this field guide when trying to identify a female Red-winged Blackbird <span class="taxon">(Agelaius phoeniceus)</span> you saw on a hike, it might be easy to mistakingly think it was a White-crowned Sparrow, <em>especially</em> if the Species Account for Red-winged Blackbirds had a male as the profile image.</p>
      <p>However using identification keys can help avoid that trap.</p>
      <p>Perhaps some ‘Yes’, ‘No’, ‘Do not know’ flow charts could be made, e.g. ‘Did the bird have a crown?’</p>
    </section>
  </section>
</section>
</body>
</html>